Text extracted from page 0:
| INTRODUCTION

In which we try to explain why we consider artificial intelligence to be a subject

most worthy of study, and in which we try to decide what exactly it is, this being a

good thing to decide before embarking.

INTELLIGENCE We call ourselves Homo sapiens—man the wise—because our intelligence is so important
to us. For thousands of years, we have tried to understand how we think; that is, how a mere
handful of matter can perceive, understand, predict, and manipulate a world far larger and

AOTC CE more complicated than itself. The field of artificial intelligence, or AI, goes further still: it
attempts not just to understand but also to build intelligent entities.

Al is one of the newest fields in science and engineering. Work started in earnest soon
after World War II, and the name itself was coined in 1956. Along with molecular biology,
Alis regularly cited as the “field I would most like to be in” by scientists in other disciplines.
A student in physics might reasonably feel that all the good ideas have already been taken by
Galileo, Newton, Einstein, and the rest. AI, on the other hand, still has openings for several
full-time Einsteins and Edisons.

Al currently encompasses a huge variety of subfields, ranging from the general (earning
and perception) to the specific, such as playing chess, proving mathematical theorems, writing
poetry, driving a car on a crowded street, and diagnosing diseases. AI is relevant to any
intellectual task; it is truly a universal field.

1.1 WHAT Is AI?

We have claimed that AI is exciting, but we have not said what it is. In Figure 1.1 we see
eight definitions of AI, laid out along two dimensions. The definitions on top are concerned
with thought processes and reasoning, whereas the ones on the bottom address behavior. The
definitions on the left measure success in terms of fidelity to human performance, whereas

RATIONALITY the ones on the right measure against an ideal performance measure, called rationality. A
system is rational if it does the “right thing,” given what it knows.

Historically, all four approaches to AI have been followed, each by different people
with different methods. A human-centered approach must be in part an empirical science, in-

1


Text extracted from page 1:
2 Chapter 1. Introduction
Thinking Humanly Thinking Rationally
“The exciting new effort to make comput- “The study of mental faculties through the
ers think ... machines with minds, in the use of computational models.”
full and literal sense.” (Haugeland, 1985) (Chariak and McDermott, 1985)
“(The automation of] activities that we “The study of the computations that make
associate with human thinking, activities it possible to perceive, reason, and act.”
such as decision-making, problem solv- (Winston, 1992)
ing, learning ...” (Bellman, 1978)
Acting Humanly Acting Rationally
“The art of creating machines that per- “Computational Intelligence is the study
form functions that require intelligence of the design of intelligent agents.” (Poole
when performed by people.” (Kurzweil, et al., 1998)
1990)
“The study of how to make computers do “AI ...is concerned with intelligent be-
things at which, at the moment, people are havior in artifacts.” (Nilsson, 1998)
better.” (Rich and Knight, 1991)
Figure 1.1 Some definitions of artificial intelligence, organized into four categories.
volving observations and hypotheses about human behavior. A rationalist! approach involves
a combination of mathematics and engineering. The various group have both disparaged and
helped each other. Let us look at the four approaches in more detail.
1.1.1 Acting humanly: The Turing Test approach
TURING TEST The Turing Test, proposed by Alan Turing (1950), was designed to provide a satisfactory
operational definition of intelligence. A computer passes the test if a human interrogator, after
posing some written questions, cannot tell whether the written responses come from a person
or from a computer. Chapter 26 discusses the details of the test and whether a computer would
really be intelligent if it passed. For now, we note that programming a computer to pass a
rigorously applied test provides plenty to work on. The computer would need to possess the
following capabilities:
SA A ANGUAGE o natural language processing to enable it to communicate successfully in English;
AOE OGE ON e knowledge representation to store what it knows or hears;
aOMTED e automated reasoning to use the stored information to answer questions and to draw
new conclusions;
MACHINE LEARNING eo machine learning to adapt to new circumstances and to detect and extrapolate patterns.
1 By distinguishing between human and rational behavior, we are not suggesting that humans are necessarily
“irrational” in the sense of “emotionally unstable” or “insane.” One merely need note that we are not perfect:
not all chess players are grandmasters; and, unfortunately, not everyone gets an A on the exam. Some systematic
errors in human reasoning are cataloged by Kahneman et al. (1982).


